You want to give me my, no, you want to give me my
choice? What? You want to give me my choice?
Coffee, tea, oil? Yeah. Okay. Two? Please.
Please. I've got to stay awake. What's wrong with
you this afternoon? I had wine for lunch. I've
always maintained the time to bomb Washington is
at 1230, given the lunches I always make with
Congress. I'm not kidding. I was with the
Smithsonian. They really put a spread out. OK,
now, the next series of questions I have to ask
concern relationships with other agencies. And
I'd like to tell you about the agency and then see
what sort of input you think you had in direction or
the direction the agency might happen to go. The
NSF, what was your attitude or relationship
towards the National Science Foundation? My
attitude towards them has always been the same.
The more involvement the foundation has in
oceanography, the better the program will be. I
see no competition between the foundation and
anybody else, and was the key man who recommended
the foundation take the Sea Grant program as
opposed to Interior Commerce, who I didn't think,
and still don't to this day, knows how to do
anything outhouse. And that's history. It
doesn't mean the people can't do it. It's just, you
know, just the tradition of an organization like
the Department of Commerce or the Department of
Interior is just an internal, in-house type of
organization. And I don't think you'd ever
created an office of naval research type of
environment, for example, had you ever started
after the war in anybody but the Navy. And you can
say the Navy's a bureaucratic organization, but
the way they did that, that certainly came out on
top. Well, I was going to ask about the ONR for a
second. I just want to follow that up. People like
Roger Revell, for example, give to the Navy total
credit with the development both of the ONR and of
oceanography. I take it you would agree with that?
Initially, yes. Okay. So when time comes for the
ONR to separate and, you know, not separate,
that's too strong, but for the ONR to encourage the
NSF to grow out of the ONR, after all, they did
change in effect. Well, I didn't know that they
encouraged it. I don't know who did that
encouragement. I came on the scene after NSF was
established and when there was some competition
between NSF and ONR, but there was no competition
at the high level, in oceanography and the highest
level of the Navy very definitely encouraged both
O and R to get better involved and deeper involved
in oceanography and to get NSF deeper and more
financially involved in oceanography. And I
think we succeeded in that if you look at the
percentages of the pie within O and R devoted to
oceanography and the percentage of the pie within
NSF devoted to oceanography. When you saw what
seemed to be a competition when you came between
ONR and NSF, what sort of competition or what did
you think was the ingredient that caused the
competition to occur? Like any other
bureaucracy, ONR was very proud of its history and
very proud of its accomplishments and should be
and should have been, but wasn't paying that much
attention to what it ought to be doing in a changing
world. And therefore, I tried to get them out of
nuclear physics and put the money in nuclear
physics into oceanography, which I partially
succeeded in, but didn't completely. Because I
don't think in today's world, or even in the
mid-'60s world, that one could have doubled the
budget just by putting new money in it. When you
make a decision like that, you have to figure out
what you do in place of something. And that's
sometimes the hardest decision. It's easy to say,
if somebody gives me twice as much money, what I'm
going to do. It's a lot more difficult if somebody
says, all right, We feel this program is
important. You can go ahead and do it if you want to.
And that if you want to means you better kill
something else in order to get it going.
That's natural. That's human competition. And
that's good. I felt that ONR was good. I still feel
it is good. And the reason that I put the
recommended and it was approved to put the Naval
Research and Development Oceanographic
Activity under the Chief of Naval Research was I
think he's the best man to do the job. And I could
have put it directly under me instead of under him
under me, or I could have put it under the Chief of
Naval Materials Organization or the Director of
Navy Labs. I really believe that he's still the
most competent to set up something that's that new
in the world and that demanding and has that far to
go. And I hope that that flexibility will remain
with ONR. I don't know. It's hard to foresee what
will happen in the future. Or what about NOAA?
Well, NOAA was also, in the year I was gone, it was
also changed from, I guess, ESSA to NOAA. In the
early days in the 60s, I was trying to get, then it
was what, the Coast and Geodetic Survey more
involved. I think it was Mr. Wakeman who was active
in the legislation to get them a three-star
admiral's billet as an assistant administrator.
I certainly appeared whenever I could with the
then the Coast and Geodetic Survey to support
their budgets. I still did before I was the NOAA
deputy. I do not appear now as NOAA deputy, nor do I
appear as oceanographer because they're so big
and, comparatively speaking, and have so many
things to do, I can't just find the time. But I sign
letters that support their programs. I feel it's
very critical that NOAA be involved in the ocean. I
don't know that I would do it exactly the way that
they're doing it. But I don't know their problems
as much as well as I know either the Foundation's
problems or the Navy's problems. I think I
recognize NSF's problems in dealing with
Congress and the Navy's problems. But I don't
always understand NOAA's problems, because NOAA
is a conglomerate within the Department of
Commerce. I'm still a great supporter of NOAA
trying to do the things that I think it ought to. And
I was willing and, in fact, recommended that they
not create the Defense Mapping Agency, but they
create a web mapping agency. They either gave it to
Noah or the Navy, and I would have voted giving it to
Noah, finally. I really felt that the only
safeguard I'd have on that is to set the priorities
so that I could override priorities if it were a
real hard thing to do. I had that arrangement with
the Coast Guard. I was instrumental in giving the
Coast Guard the Navy's icebreakers back in the
60s. And everybody said, oh, if you give it to them,
they'll never do the job for you. We'll never get
this done, and we'll never get that done, and we'll
never get the other done. And the commandant of the
Coast Guard has always done what the Navy had to
have done. Not what the Navy wanted to get done, but
when you had a Polaris problem or something really
emergency, they were right there on top of it. And I
think it's come out very nicely. And I don't see any
reason why the same type of arrangement couldn't
be with NOAA. And we did transfer the data center to
them, and we did transfer the instrument center. I
think that They can do things a lot better. But
don't forget, they're also a new agency. They're
also growing rapidly. The outside world likes to
think they're not growing rapidly. But if you look
at their budget percentage-wise increase, it's
been significant over the last four or five years.
I'd like to see them do a better job of mapping, a
better job of environmental prediction. And I'd
like to see the Navy turn things over to that area or
work with them. I'm trying to work with them on the
engineering side. I have a dilemma here that it's
not easy for me to give technology to a foreign
country in an engineering sense. So I've been
trying to not interfere with what they're doing
there. On the other hand, I've committed to Dr.
White to help him if he has a problem in
engineering. And I have helped him in the man in the
sea program and do provide significant liaison
for that. I think there's a conflict between the
agencies at the middle working level, but right at
the present time and for the last two and a half
years, I don't think I've seen a major conflict in
the policy direction between NOAA and the Navy,
with the possible exception of the Navy's view of
technology exchange internationally versus
NOAA's view. And I don't know that I speak for Dr.
White. I know that the one echelon below, they'd
like to give everything to everybody. And I don't,
that's not a, agreed upon government position.
The
rest is a lot easier now than I know
it. This is something that we sunk at midway that
they dug back up and sunk us.
Now, in terms of relationships with Congress, do
you see your primary role in Congress with that as,
if I may use the word, a lobbyist for Navy
oceanography or as an expert witness coming in for
Naval oceanography or both? I'd like to say I see it
as a lobbyist, but I haven't been able to exercise
that role. And the reason I haven't is because of
the controversy that's really surrounded moving
something out of Washington. I would like to do
that because I think a lobbyist in the proper sense
of the word is an important thing. I think it's
something the Navy hasn't done. I think it's
something the Navy should do. As far as being a
technical witness is concerned, that's probably
the role I've played over the last 15 years or 10
years more than any other by merely trying to
support the committees that are dealing in
oceanography and not necessarily trying to lobby
them for the Navy because they aren't the people
who give the Navy the money. And I have never
appeared before the Navy's own committees but
once. I appeared as a commander in the mid-'60s in
an attempt to get extra money for Navy ocean
engineering, deep submergence, and believe it or
not, was successful and was, I believe, one of the
few times Mr. McNamara let the department accept
an amount of money given to them over and above the
president's budget by the Congress. And it was $10
million, if I remember correctly. It may have only
been five, but it wasn't a lot of money. It seemed
like a lot of money to me at the time. And it occurred
right at the time we just recovered the hydrogen
bomb. I remember that because I remember the
briefing I gave. And I didn't give it as
oceanography. I gave it as special assistant to
the secretary. I prepare testimony for
everybody, but I personally don't go before the
Navy's own committees. But I do go personally
before the committees that are outside of the
armed services, such as the Senate and the House
committees that deal in oceanography. and I do
that in a technical sense, lobbying for
oceanography in general and not lobbying for
oceanography for the Navy. Although if somebody
asks me if the Navy can do a better job in this than
somebody else, I'll tell them the truth, and some
people don't like this. If somebody asks me if the
Navy can do a better job in charting than NOAA, I'll
say, hell no, NOAA can do a better job. If the Navy
says to me, somebody says, can the Navy do a better
job than the man in the sea, I'll say, hell yes,
because it can. It's got 4,000 people at sea, and I
can give you all the reasons why it can do a better
job. Now, there may be bureaucratic reasons why
the Navy ought not to do something, and that enters
into it, and I think I'm pretty honest about that. I
think that you've got to put the Navy in it to get it
started, but you don't want to keep the Navy in it.
And I think this is really what's happened in ocean
science, too. The Navy started it, and the Navy's
not the major player now, but I think the Navy's
still a major player, but not the major player. And
we have an abandoned ship, if you know what I mean.
On the other hand, we've let the Foundation take
the lead, and yet we're working together with
them. I see no conflict in that because there's so
much to be done. And I don't think a naval officer
such as myself is trying to perpetuate his own
bureaucracy. That doesn't mean I'm pure, but I
think there's less incentive for me to do it than
there is for somebody who makes a career out of a
bureaucracy, although I've now been accused of
it, as I'm sure you recognize. Now, in terms of
development of of your department of
oceanography here in effect in this ocean, what
would you say were the most important
accomplishments? I mean, what time frame? Oh,
from between 60 and 75, the 15 years you've been
here. What are the things you're... Well, I don't
take credit for all of them by a long shot. I would
say in the 60s, the major accomplishment was a
significant increase in the academic program in
oceanography and the training of
oceanographers. I think the 60s, what we did in the
universities gave us the capability, assured the
this nation or this government ever really go into
the sea in a big way, we have the qualified and
capable people. That's what we got academically
out of the 60s. We got new ships, and we sort of
rebuilt up the fleet from World War II in
oceanography. We moved into deep submergence and
ocean engineering in a big way for the first time,
and I think got to a very significant position
before we all of a sudden in the late 60s, like 68,
69, stopped doing much of anything. I think in the,
and we began to bring people together in the 60s.
The Interagency Committee on Oceanography and
even the Marine Science Council and those things,
I think, started to bring people together. I think
in the 70s what we accomplished, what we
accomplished interagency-wise was the creation
of a very fine consolidation of the foundation and
the Navy and NOAA Sea Grant in not under one
management but under a understanding management
and a cooperative effort in which I do work with
them and we do know what they do and they do know what
we do. I think the other incentive or not incentive
but I think the other some of the things that we've
done that I think are very worthwhile are the
constant effort to declassify military
information. I think if that weren't run by the
Secretary's office, you'd never get it done
because the military mind always likes to say,
keep out of my hair. I think that the creation of the
navigational satellite system has been
absolutely magnificent from both a scientific
and engineering viewpoint. And that came out of
the Polaris program. I think the work that was done
in the fleet ballistic missile system for
hydrographic upgrading of the multi-beam echo
sounder for the accuracy and the building of the
newer submersibles and the accomplishment of
being able to start getting some instrumentation
and hardware in deep submergence and undersea
technology were accomplishments then. The 70s
accomplishments were only the one between the
foundation and I suppose the rest of the
accomplishments are those contained within the
Navy in an attempt to try to crystallize the Navy's
program and attempt to try to put it in a better
perspective I think I have lost in many of my
objectives. I think my objective of bringing the
meteorologists and the oceanographer together
was very selfish. It was to broaden the base of
manpower within the Navy, and that has been
accomplished about a year ahead of schedule. The
ability to consolidate in a geographical
location was a long, hard fight, and that's not
over yet, but it's one third over. I think the
ability to get the management consolidation,
which is not geographic, but to bring everybody
working together is the next fight in the scene.
And the one that I've lost, which hurts me the most,
is getting new capital investment objectives
from the Navy Department to be able to help both the
academic community and the Navy. And I think,
unfortunately,
that's lost in my time. If I'm lucky, I might be able
to get something authorized, but it'll never be
completed in my tour. Now, when the consolidation
process, of which you've run, do you think,
roughly one-third, do you think... I'm sorry. Let
me try it this way. What will be the goals of the
operation in Gulfport that will be different than
your present goals? To ensure that all of the
Navy's effort in what we call ocean science, and
you'd have to look at the instruction that talks
about this because it's not academic science. It
goes a lot beyond that. are fully integrated and
coordinated, but not necessarily physically put
in Gulfport, but are integrated with the effort of
the academic community. Not to drive the effort of
the academic community, but have them working
together towards a common understanding of the
ultimate mathematical model of the world's
ocean. Now, you and I know we're not going to get
from here to there, but that's the objective, and
if you put your sight on that objective, even if you
don't agree you can do such a thing, you can get an
approximation to it, We're all going to be better
off, the fishermen, the merchant marine, the
Navy, the submarine community, the weapons
community, and the exploiting community such as
the oil industry and the other. In the prediction
arena, that's to take what we learned from the
science and get it out to the user. The Navy's not
doing too bad a job with that right now. I'd like to
be able to take that and get it out to all the users,
not just the Navy users. I'd like to do better
within the Navy, but I'd like to also get it out to
the other users. And that's hard to do because a lot
of people suspect what you're doing when you do
that. But it's still worth a college try. And by
physically putting the director of that
organization in the Navy in a geographical office
next door to the scientific world plus in-house
development world, that may achieve what I hope it
will achieve. Then I take it that your hope is that
the proximity of the people located in one spot
will increase the efficiency and cooperation of
your unit. That's true, but it's got to be more than
that. You've got to direct them so that most of
their work is going towards the objectives you
want them to go for and not spending so much time
either fighting with each other or doing their own
little administrative thing. Now, the last
series of interview questions I have on the fourth
quarter interview are some general comments
about naval career and naval civilian
cooperation, if I may use that word.
First of all, in the 20th century Navy, if I may, do
you see more of a move in the Navy into disciplines
like oceanography, away from ship lines? No, I
don't. I saw more of that in the 60s, and I've seen
that sort of taper off. I've seen the Navy attempt
to go to the route of specialization in discipline
fields, and then I've seen the Navy now in the last
two years head back towards what you do at sea is
what counts. I'm very disappointed in that
because the Navy's a damn big corporation, and it
takes a lot of qualified people, and I'd like to see
some of those qualified people military, even
though I've been the one guy that pushed hard to
civilianize the The oceanographic programming
have achieved most of that, but I still think that
if you're going to run a Navy, the Naval officer
better know enough about it to be able to run it. But
there's a danger there, and that is in a discipline
like this, you have to stay so long you can
jeopardize your own career militarily. I think
many people have. I think that's probably why Don
Walsh left the Navy. I think he loved the Navy, but I
think he felt he just spent too much time in
oceanography and he couldn't compete with the...
I'd have to ask him, but that's my outside
assessment. Okay, so you see now what seemed to be
the swing of the Navy in the 60s to integrate more
and more managerial and scientific aspects now
back to the ship-of-the-line approach. That's
what I see. Whether that's accurate or not, that's
certainly what I see. All right. Secondly, in
terms of naval attitudes, would you agree that in
terms of oceanography that you see more
oceanographic work in, let's say, mapping,
charting?
and deep sea work than you did in what seemed to be a
generalized approach to oceanography in the 60s?
No. That is oceanography becoming more
specialized or less specialized? Today I'd see it
becoming less specialized than it was before. I
think before it tended to give the appearance of
being specialized. I think today there's been
enough naval officers that have gone through
graduate school and been exposed to it to
recognize we know so little that they just can't.
narrow their focus, and I don't think they all know
what they want, but I think there's quite a few
naval officers around in the Admiral Circuit that
either have sons in oceanography or have seen what
it can do for them that give them at least a feel that
it's important, although they can't necessarily
articulate why it's important, nor would they put
their own money in it. But at least I think we've
made that progress, and that's a carryover from
the 60s when we educated people, I think. Do you see
any increase in hostility towards the military
establishment? By whom? On the part of either
Congress or civilians. I don't. A lot of people say
that's going to happen. But I've seen them come
through what I consider a huge hostility during
the Vietnam era. And I've seen that hostility
shift towards industrial corporations. And I was
talking to Mr. Mellon up in Pittsburgh about a year
ago on that subject. And I've also seen arguments
that say that the Congress is very much against the
military. I think that's not exactly the case. I
think what you are seeing is the newer congressmen
have not served in the military. Therefore,
they're not that familiar with it, number one.
Number two, their demands for national medical
programs and social programs, that someday
they're going to wake up. You can't have always
both things. And I think this is going to affect the
military budget I would hope that it wouldn't
affect the Navy as much as it would the Army or the
Air Force, but you never can tell. But I don't see an
open animosity. I see, I'm just as welcome, I'm
more welcome right now than I was in the 69, 70
timeframe, but not as much as I was in the 63 to 66
timeframe. If you had any advice to young career
officers to begin here in the Navy, what would you
say? Would you say, go back to your alma mater, come
into the Navy this way, be a regular naval man? You
mean instead of going to the Naval Academy or what?
I mean to go to the Naval Academy and come through or
what? Oh, I think the best way to advise a young man
is to go to the Naval Academy and then take your
graduate education somewhere outside of the
Naval Academy. That gives you the best of both
worlds, in my opinion. But you still think
graduate education is necessary? My own personal
opinion is a naval officer is in a world that's so
highly technical and so highly different from the
rest of the world and its rapidity with its
technology moves and a man who is not have advanced
education in today's world is just not the kind of
guy I'd want to have if I had my ways about it. And I
think that it has another side benefit, and that is
if you choose after 20 years to say to hell with the
Navy, you've got some confidence to do some work on
the outside. I think it's an incentive program. If
I had my way, every enlisted man would get a college
degree or a technical degree by the time he
finished his 20 years, and every naval officer
would have at least a master's degree. and I
wouldn't let them go on and make captain if they
didn't, and I wouldn't let an enlisted man extend
beyond his 20, and I think I owed it to him. But then
I'm not, that's my position, and that is not an
agreed upon position, because a lot of people
think I'm crazy about that. But I really think in
today's world that this corporation, which is 30
some billion dollars a year, needs a highly
competent technical group of people working for
it. All right, now then, what, have you had any
recommendations to young oceanographers? What
would you suggest? Military or civilian?
Civilian oceanography. Stay away from marine
biology. All right. Stay away from marine
biology. And the reason I say that is because most
of the people who have come into oceanography have
come into it in the sense of the Jacques Cousteau
world of the fishing and the diving. And I think
that oceanography is important and absolutely
essential. But it's not an easy subject. It is not a
basket weaving course. It's a hard subject.
You've got to understand your math. You've got to
understand your physics. You've got to
understand what goes on in the ocean. And I don't
think you can do it by buying a scuba gear and just
playing. And I think that a lot of the young people
tend to think that's the costos world of
oceanography is the world they want to be a part of.
That's a fringe benefit to me. But that's not why
you ought to be doing it. And I'm having that
problem with the Naval Academy. And I'm having
that problem with postgraduate school and trying
to harden up the math and the physics in the
curricula because we're getting a reputation
these days of being a bunch of easygoing
diving people. And I think that's bad for both the
community and I think that's bad for the Navy. And I
think it's true in both sides. So when you look at a
young student to bring him into your department
here, if you civilianize your department, do you
hunt for somebody with training in hard math and
physics? Well, I take biologists, too, but I think
we're producing about three to one, three
biologists for every man with a hard math
background, and I think that it ought to be exactly
the opposite ratio. There ought to be three or four
to one with a hard math ratio. And even in the
fishing and biology business, hard math has sure
helped. Because we're in the dark age as far as
biology is concerned. We're still using that
plankton net that I think was invented in the 18th
century. And yet we've done much better in the
other areas. We're digitized and we're looking.
And I don't see why we can't.
That's a personal opinion, but I think a lot of the
universities are beginning to see you've got to do
the same sort of thing. And I think we're all coming
about to the same point. Jack Cousteau is the
greatest contribution that I can think of to
oceanography because I had he and his wife at the
Secretary's mess, and that's how I sold the
Secretary of the Navy into putting more money in
oceanography. But that's salesmanship. That's
lobbying. We've got to produce now, and I think
we've got to have a lot more sophisticated
background than to be able to use the modern
technology to be able to produce. That's my own
personal opinion. Now, I have one other question,
and that is, if someone came to you and said,
Admiral Snyder, what's been your greatest
contribution in terms of your career in the Navy
and in oceanography? In the Navy or in
oceanography? In the Navy first and in
oceanography, one, two. I don't know. I don't
think it's easy to ever say what you've
contributed in the Navy. I know what my happiest
job was and my most rewarding job was, and that was,
interestingly enough, in Vietnam. where I had a
ship and every Marine and every soldier was
convinced that I saved his life. And that's a
pretty rewarding thing. So that's hard to beat. In
the technical side, if I get it consolidated and if
I get it under everybody working together, that
will be a major accomplishment that nobody else
has ever been able to do. And I don't even know
whether I can do it or not and get everybody working
together. I'm heading in that direction. I hope to
be able to say that when I leave that that I have
accomplished, at least set the stage for it going
forward. I guess that's about all I can say,
because I think that in an organization this
large, we tend to think one individual is able to
make that significant a contribution. But I think
that the realities of life are that the only
contribution I've made is persistence and
obnoxiousness. And unfortunately, on occasion,
you can stand one guy in 1,000 who's that way.